Report
Yifei Wang/yifeiw3/yifeiw3@student.unimelb.edu.au
Zhuolun Lang/zlang/zlang@student.unimelb.edu.au
Yujing Jiang/yujingj/yujingj@student.unimelb.edu.au


Our game is basically a third person game that allows the player to control the
ball to pass through all the obstacles and overcome the harsh situation that
the environment bring to the ball and finally achieve the goal which is get to
the destination. Regarding to instruction for this game, we have a very simple
and user-friendly UI for the player which can tap 'Start' on the Menu Scene
which is the first scene the player will see. The scene will be changed to the
game scene as soon as the player tap the 'Start' button. It is very
straightforwared to play and control the ball. We have 'W'/UpArrow for
rolling forward, 'A'/LeftArrow for rolling left, 'S'/DownArrow for rolling back
and 'D'/RightArrow for rolling right. Since we are can only control the ball
and our game is designed to be a three dimensional game, we have 'Q' and 'E' to
help player to adjust the perspective from the ball. By pressing 'Q', the perspective
will be turned right hand side and the perspective will be turned to the left
by pressing 'E'. We have designed different types of ball which has been made up of
different varieties of material such as wooden, iron, bronze, fire and so on to
make the player have more choice to play the game. Different balls have
different attribute which significantly affects their speed and friction. To change the ball
during the game, just simply press 'C'. There are some harsh situation during
the gameplay, for instance, climbing a uphill road or go over the traps. Then
what we need to do is accelarate the ball by keeping pressing 'SHIFT' and
'W'/UpArrow. 

Talking about the objects and entities have been modelled, those different
types of balls are stored as many prefabs and it is easier to utilize when
making the function of changing the ball type. The game map is generated by a
CSV file. We read the data in the file and using our mapGenerator script to
generate a map in the unity scene as a single game object. In addition, we have
a fireball which has no real objects but a branch of fire which has zero in
weights. Every balls have different attributes according to what they have been
made up of.

When we handle the graphics pipeline and camera motion, we make our camera
sticked with the ball in a constant distance and by pressing 'Q' or 'E' button,
the camera will rotate around the ball as the central 90 degrees clockwise and
ani-clockwise respectivly. We can make player more confortable and easier to
get to the destination. When the ball has a collision to other objects, we use
discrete method to minimize the computation so that we have relatively high
FPS.

There are three different types of shaders have been utilized in our game. They
are Phong shader, Disappear shader and Vibrate Shader.

Phong shader is used to help adjust the ambient, diffuse and specular to make
the game much more realistic. Disappear shader is created for some special mode
which means that the player can only see the environment several seconds and
the whole environment will disappear for 1-2 seconds iteratively so that we
make the game a bit harder to play and bring some fresh idea to the player.
Talking about the Vibrate shader used in this game, we used it on the words and
the button since the whole environment we make is in the universe and it all
happens in some different gravity environment. Therefore, we prefer that the
words and the button is sometimes not stable and even shaking and falling apart
to make it much more real and interesting.

The participants are all Melbourne University students and we found 6 participants to play our
game. We conduct a survey by paper to make their easier to understand and lead them to
give us some useful suggestions. 
1) There are 4 participants saying that they prefer to have some more effects to make it more interesting and not that quick
to get bored from playing the game. Then we add more particle effects to make it more fancy.
2) Two Participants mentioned that they would like to play game with some
background music. Based on that, background musics for menu and gameplay has
been added. 
3) Most of the participants are not a big fan of vibrate shader in the
Menu scene so that the vibrate shader has been eliminated from the Menu scene.

A statement  about  any  code/APIs  you have sourced/used  from  the internet that is not your own.
